FreeRTOS/Demo/AFTx07/Readme.md, before:

# Emulating generic RISC-V 32bit machine on QEMU

## Requirements
1. Set up Software in Socet Confluence.

https://wiki.itap.purdue.edu/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=247664452

2. GNU RISC-V toolchains.

It should be done in the previous step, if not download from here and add to PATH.
```
cd ~
wget https://static.dev.sifive.com/dev-tools/freedom-tools/v2020.08/riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc-10.1.0-2020.08.2-x86_64-linux-centos6.tar.gz
```

## How to build

Add path of toolchain that is described above section, such as:

```
$ export PATH="/YOUR_PATH/riscv64-unknown-elf/bin:${PATH}"
```

For release build:

```
$ make -C build/gcc/
```

For debug build:

**NOTE: not yet tested**

```
$ make -C build/gcc/ DEBUG=1
```

To clean build artifacts:

```
$ make -C build/gcc/ clean
```

If the build was successful, the RTOSDemo.bin will be located in the build/gcc/output directory and can be copy to main AFTx07 and rename to meminit.bin.



## How to run

**NOTE:** run from main AFTx07 dir.
```
$ ./aft_out/sim-verilator/Vaftx07
```

## Description

This demo just prints Tx/Rx message of queue to serial port, use no
other hardware and use only primary core (currently hart 0).
Other cores are simply going to wfi state and execute nothing else.

Commit message:

Successfully run small demo on AFTx07 verilator
The small demo is in main_blinky.c file. Fix the linker files to align the stack top address.

This commit brough in:
FreeRTOSConfig.h: increase total heap size to be 80KB, not sure if that can be set to smaller number?
risv-virt.h: update CLINT register address
fake_rom.ld: fix the _stack_top address to be 4 bytes alligned
main_blinky.c: update small demo for AFTx07
Makefile: increase total stack size to 500

FreeRTOS/Demo/AFTx07/Readme.md, after:

# Emulating FreeRTOS on AFTx07 on Verilator

## Requirements
1. Set up Software in Socet Confluence.

https://wiki.itap.purdue.edu/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=247664452

2. GNU RISC-V toolchains.

First try if riscv-gcc toolchain is on your path.
```
$ riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc --version
riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc (SiFive GCC 10.1.0-2020.08.2) 10.1.0
Copyright (C) 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
```

It should be added in the PATH in the setup step, if not download from here and add to PATH.
```
$ cd ~
$ wget https://static.dev.sifive.com/dev-tools/freedom-tools/v2020.08/riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc-10.1.0-2020.08.2-x86_64-linux-centos6.tar.gz
```

## How to build

Add path of toolchain that is described above section, such as:

```
$ export PATH="/YOUR_PATH/riscv64-unknown-elf/bin:${PATH}"
```

For release build:

```
$ make -C build/gcc/
```

For debug build:

**NOTE: not yet tested**

```
$ make -C build/gcc/ DEBUG=1
```

To clean build artifacts:

```
$ make -C build/gcc/ clean
```

If the build was successful, the RTOSDemo.bin will be located in the build/gcc/output directory and can be copy to main AFTx07 and rename to meminit.bin.



## How to run

**NOTE:** run from main AFTx07 dir. Make sure the verilator is built with enough RAM. Refer to confluence page to how to build verilator.
```
$ ./aft_out/sim-verilator/Vaftx07
```

## Description

This demo just prints Tx/Rx message of queue to serial port, use no
other hardware and use only primary core (currently hart 0).
Other cores are simply going to wfi state and execute nothing else.


## For future revs of AFTx

Should the address of CLINT module change, it has to be updated in `riscv-virt.h` file.

For more information on how to port FreeRTOS to RISCV, check out this link [FreeRTOS on RISC-V Microcontrollers](https://www.freertos.org/Using-FreeRTOS-on-RISC-V.html#FREERTOS_CONFIG_SETTINGS)
